
# Hoon School Live Aug 2023

## Final Project

Do you need some quick cash? Were you inspired by the hit film [21 (2008)](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0478087/)? Well then, it's time to level-up your Blackjack game.

Introducing: `bj-trainer.hoon`, your first step in learning how to beat the house at BlackJack. Counting cards is an art form and goes well beyond what `bj-trainer` is capable of (for now) but, if you want to get into the fancy mathematics of Hi-Lo vs Zen Count, you've got to master the basics first.

To get started, first install the `bj-trainer` generator like so:

```bash
$ git clone git@github.com:bohendo/hsl.git
$ cp hsl/bj-trainer.hoon ~/path-to/zod/base/gen/
```

Then, from your dojo, run:

```bash
> |commit %base
```

You might have seen [the charts](https://betandbeat.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/blackjack-basic-strategy-chart-1365x2048.png), but casinos don't take kindly to you bringing in cheat sheets so you'll need to know the optimal first move by heart. That's where `bj-trainer` comes in. This app will train your first move of blackjack until it's at the peak of mathematical efficiency.

You're going to run `bj-trainer` like so:

```
> +bj-trainer [%stand [%n6 %n7] %n6]
[%correct next-hand=[hand=[lc=%q rc=%n4] dealer=%n5]]
```

`bj-trainer` takes one cell of 3 arguments, let's break it down:
- `%stand`: the move I'm proposing to make
- `[%n6 %n7]`: my hand
- `%n6`: the dealer's face-up card

Because terms need to start with alphabetical characters, all number cards are prefixed with an `n`, so the 7 of hearts becomes `%n7` (we don't pay attention to suite in BlackJack). Face and ace cards are indicated by just their first letter so jack is `%j` and so on.

Available moves are:
- `%stand`
- `%split`
- `%double`
- `%hit`

"It's not a very good trainer if I get to chose the hand I'm faced with."

Well, let me introduce you to the next part of `bj-trainer`: a proposed next hand, generated by a cryptographically secure pseudorandom number generator. You can see in the example above that your new hand is a queen (`%q`) and a four (`%n4`) and the dealer has a five (`%n5`) showing. How should we play this?

```
> +bj-trainer [%double [%q %n4] %n5]
[%wrong next-hand=[hand=[lc=%a rc=%n6] dealer=%n7]]
```

Wrong! You never double down on a queen and 4! Luckily, the `bj-trainer` is forgiving so you can try again with the same hand (ctrl-p & edit to your liking):

```
> +bj-trainer [%stand [%q %n4] %n5]
[%correct next-hand=[hand=[lc=%n3 rc=%n7] dealer=%n6]]
```

There we go, we're well on our way to becoming a BlackJack millionaire. Time to copy the proposed next hand and repeat until we're ready to move on to the next level of blackjack: actually counting cards (coming soon (not really)).
